---
title: Oil Shale
---

![Oil Shale](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/ore-fluid-crude-oil-gravel.png){:style="height: 128px"}


**Oil shale** is an uncommon
[ore](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Ore){:target="_blank"} that yields
[bitumen](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/bitumen/).


Obtaining
---------
Oil shale occurs fairly uncommonly in
[mesas](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Mesa){:target="_blank"},
[oceans](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Ocean){:target="_blank"},
[swamplands](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Swampland){:target="_blank"}, and
snowy [biomes](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Biome){:target="_blank"} in veins
between [gravel](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Gravel){:target="_blank"},
[dirt](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Dirt){:target="_blank"} and
[stone](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Stone){:target="_blank"} blocks. It is
found at almost any altitude (layers 10-80). It occurs in fairly large deposits,
almost as large as deposits of [coal
ore](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Coal_Ore){:target="_blank"}. Deposits of
oil shale may also contain some coal ore.

Oil shale also more rarely occurs in much larger deposits underground (layers
20-60) in all biomes, surrounding a small amount of [crude
oil](/docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/crude-oil/).

Oil shale must be mined with a [stone
pickaxe](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Pickaxe){:target="_blank"} or better.
It drops one piece of [bitumen](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/bitumen/)
when mined. More bitumen is dropped if a
[Fortune](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Fortune){:target="_blank"} enchanted
pickaxe is used. Oil shale itself can be obtained by mining it with a [Silk
Touch](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Silk_Touch){:target="_blank"} enchanted
pickaxe.

When oil shale is broken, some [crude
oil](/docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/crude-oil/) comes flowing out. This oil
cannot be picked up and eventually disappears.


Usage
-----
Oil shale yields [bitumen](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/bitumen/) and
[flint](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Flint){:target="_blank"} when processed
in a [pulverizer](/docs/thermal-expansion/machines/pulverizer/). The bitumen can
then be processed into [crude oil](/docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/crude-oil/).
Oil shale can also be molten down into crude oil directly in a [magma
crucible](/docs/thermal-expansion/machines/magma-crucible/).

<div>
{% include recipe.html recipe='oil-shale-pulverizer' %}<br />
{% include recipe.html recipe='oil-shale-magma-crucible' %}
</div>
