docs/holding/index.md, before:

---
title: Holding
nav: cofh-core
redirect_from:
  - /docs/cofh-core/enchantments/holding/
  - /docs/cofh-core/features/enchantments/
  - /docs/cofh-core/enchantments/
  - /docs/cofh-core/holding/
---

**Holding** is an [enchantment](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Enchanting) that
increases the storage capacity of certain items and blocks that store things.
Its maximum level is IV.


Usage
-----

### Thermal Expansion
The following blocks and items can be enchanted with Holding to be able to hold
more items, fluids or energy:

* [Energy Cell](/docs/energy-cell/)
* [Flux Capacitor](/docs/flux-capacitor/)
* [Portable Tank](/docs/portable-tank/)
* [Cache](/docs/cache/)
* [Strongbox](/docs/strongbox/)
* [Satchel](/docs/satchel/)

### Thermal Cultivation
[Watering cans](/docs/watering-can/) can be enchanted with Holding to be able to
hold more water.

### Redstone Arsenal
All equipment added by [Redstone Arsenal](/docs/redstone-arsenal/) can be
enchanted with Holding to be able to hold more energy.

Commit message:

Added essence of knowledge page

docs/holding/index.md, after:

---
title: Holding
nav: cofh-core
redirect_from:
  - /docs/cofh-core/enchantments/holding/
  - /docs/cofh-core/features/enchantments/
  - /docs/cofh-core/enchantments/
  - /docs/cofh-core/holding/
---

**Holding** is an [enchantment](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Enchanting) that
increases the storage capacity of certain items and blocks that store things.
Its maximum level is IV.


Usage
-----

### Thermal Foundation
[Tomes of knowledge](/docs/tome-of-knowledge/) can be enchanted to hold more
[experience](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience).

### Thermal Expansion
The following blocks and items can be enchanted to hold more items, fluids or
energy:

* [Energy Cell](/docs/energy-cell/)
* [Flux Capacitor](/docs/flux-capacitor/)
* [Portable Tank](/docs/portable-tank/)
* [Cache](/docs/cache/)
* [Strongbox](/docs/strongbox/)
* [Satchel](/docs/satchel/)

### Thermal Cultivation
[Watering cans](/docs/watering-can/) can be enchanted to hold more water.

### Redstone Arsenal
All equipment added by [Redstone Arsenal](/docs/redstone-arsenal/) can be
enchanted to hold more energy.
