---
title: "Redstone Flux: A Primer"
redirect_from:
  - /redstone-flux/a-primer.html
  - /docs/redstone-flux/a-primer/
---

By King Lemming, Ph.D.

Redstone - the mysterious substance found deep underground - is the source of
limitless potential in this new age of industrialization. In its native
[ore](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Redstone_Ore){:target="_blank"} form, it
exhibits the fascinating property of absorbing kinetic impacts and emitting
light. If a sufficiently strong implement, such as an [iron
pickaxe](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Pickaxe){:target="_blank"}, is used to
deliver these impacts, the ore will shatter apart and release its precious
contents in the most native form - [redstone
dust](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Redstone){:target="_blank"}. Veritable
treatises have been written on this particular form of redstone and how it may
be used to construct rudimentary circuitry, so this particular property will not
be further elaborated upon in this writing.

On a basic level, Redstone Flux is the name for the stored energy which
manifests as a standing resonant wave in a mass of redstone. The resonant
properties of this wave means that this energy can be stored indefinitely, if
contained properly. This is a logical extension of redstone dust's ability to
maintain a signal indefinitely at a given point. The amount of energy that can
be stored or transmitted through a given mass of redstone is determined by
various factors, such as the cross-sectional area and the saturation coefficient
of the mass.

To understand Redstone Flux and how it can be exploited for jolly
industrialization, one must first understand two additional properties of
redstone - its response to heat and particular interactions with various metals.

Redstone dust at standard temperatures and pressures exists in a stable
crystalline state. Leading researchers theorize that the ore's formation deep
underground contributes to this stable structure, possibly through interaction
with alluvial deposits of
[cinnabar](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/cinnabar/) - a native form of
mercury. Further research is required on this mercury-redstone interaction, with
one researcher commenting that redstone's complex structure makes this problem
"somewhat like rocket science."

Exposure to low to moderate levels of heat has no apparent effect on redstone,
without a proper catalyst in place. However, extreme levels of heat in proper
conditions where no air is present disrupts the crystalline structure of the
redstone dust. Upon losing structure, redstone becomes a fluid known as
[destabilized redstone](/docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/destabilized-redstone/)
and will remain fluid at room temperature. As the extreme pressures required for
initial crystal formation are not present, this fluid form of redstone will
persist even in sub-zero temperatures. Given the right temperature and pressure
conditions, destabilized redstone could potentially be precipitated back into a
crystalline form.

Further compounding the enigmatic nature of redstone are the interactions that
both solid and fluid forms of redstone have with various metals. It is through
the understanding and exploitation of these interactions that Redstone Flux may
be created, stored, and utilized to empower our creations and allow us to break
from the shackles of manual labor. At the time of this writing, five metals
exist which seem to have synergistic or catalytic properties with redstone. They
are as follows:

**[Copper](/docs/thermal-foundation/metals-and-alloys/copper/):** This
reasonably common metal, when mixed in the proper quantities with
[silver](/docs/thermal-foundation/metals-and-alloys/silver/) and combined with
destabilized redstone, can form
[signalum](/docs/thermal-foundation/metals-and-alloys/signalum/) - an alloy
capable of transmitting signals a long distance as well as having rudimentary
sensitivity to magnetism. This alloy can be used as a "bridge" between Redstone
Flux and electricity, as the conductive nature of the silver and copper allows
for the flow of electrons.

**[Silver](/docs/thermal-foundation/metals-and-alloys/silver/):** This precious
metal, when combined with redstone dust, is able to convert heat or electricity
into Redstone Flux. Engineering advances have shown that a [coil-type
geometry](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/redstone-coils/) can be used to
optimize the production and transmission of this Redstone Flux. Essentially,
silver is most used in the generation of Redstone Flux. The engineering mnemonic
for this is derived from the chemical abbreviation of silver - Ag - or "A
Generator."

**[Gold](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Gold){:target="_blank"}:** This
precious metal, when combined with redstone dust, is able to convert Redstone
Flux into heat or magnetism. Engineering advances have shown that a [coil-type
geometry](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/redstone-coils/) can be used to
optimize the reception and storage of Redstone Flux. Essentially, gold is most
used in the reception of Redstone Flux. The engineering mnemonic for this is
derived from the chemical abbreviation of gold - Au - or "A User."

**[Lead](/docs/thermal-foundation/metals-and-alloys/lead/):** This metal can be
used in the construction of rudimentary Redstone Flux devices. The density of
the lead acts to assist in containment of Redstone Flux, when otherwise the
resonant waveform could escape or diminish with time.

**[Electrum](/docs/thermal-foundation/metals-and-alloys/electrum/):** This metal
is simply an alloy of silver and gold, and can be utilized for the purposes of
either.

Notes: Common to all of these metals is an extremely high resistance to
corrosion. Redstone Flux is volatile in nature, and high levels of it can have
unforeseen consequences if exposed to open air or organic substances. It should
be emphasized that this list is by no means complete, and further research into
this wondrous phenomenon may yet reveal new interactions. Especially promising
are the theoretical interactions when Redstone Flux is combined with the
fundamental fabric of spacetime -
[ender](/docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/resonant-ender). Those theories however,
are beyond the scope of this document.
