---
title: Oil Sand
---

![Oil Sand](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/ore-fluid-crude-oil-sand.png){:style="height: 128px"}


**Oil sand** is an uncommon
[ore](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Ore){:target="_blank"} that yields
[bitumen](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/bitumen/).


Obtaining
---------
Oil sand occurs fairly uncommonly in
[deserts](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Desert){:target="_blank"} and similar
biomes, in veins between
[sand](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Sand){:target="_blank"},
[sandstone](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Sandstone){:target="_blank"} and
[stone](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Stone){:target="_blank"} blocks. It is
found at almost any altitude (layers 10-80). It occurs in fairly large deposits,
almost as large as deposits of [coal
ore](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Coal_Ore){:target="_blank"}.

Oil sand also more rarely occurs in much larger deposits underground (layers
30-60), surrounding a small amount of [crude
oil](/docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/crude-oil/).

Oil sand must be mined with a [stone
pickaxe](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Pickaxe){:target="_blank"} or better.
It drops one piece of [bitumen](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/bitumen/)
when mined. More bitumen is dropped if a
[Fortune](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Fortune){:target="_blank"} enchanted
pickaxe is used. Oil sand itself can be obtained by mining it with a [Silk
Touch](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Silk_Touch){:target="_blank"} enchanted
pickaxe.

When oil sand is broken, some [crude
oil](/docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/crude-oil/) comes flowing out. This oil
cannot be picked up and eventually disappears.


Usage
-----
Oil sand yields [bitumen](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/bitumen/) and
[tar](/docs/thermal-foundation/materials/tar/) when processed in a
[pulverizer](/docs/thermal-expansion/machines/pulverizer/), which can be
processed into [crude oil](/docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/crude-oil/) and
[creosote oil](/docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/creosote-oil/) respectively. It
can also be molten down into crude oil directly in a [magma
crucible](/docs/thermal-expansion/machines/magma-crucible/).

<div>
{% include recipe.html recipe='oil-sand-pulverizer' %}
</div>

<!--
recipes:
  - magma crucible (4000 RF) -> 1000 mb crude oil
-->
