---
title: 'Augment: Isentropic Reservoir'
image:
- alt: Isentropic reservoir augment
  file: thermal-expansion-5/augment-dynamo-magmatic-coolant.png
redirect_from:
- /docs/augment-isentropic-reservoir/
- /docs/thermal-expansion/augment-isentropic-reservoir/
- /docs/thermal-expansion-5/augment-isentropic-reservoir/
- /docs/1.12/thermal-expansion-5/augment-isentropic-reservoir/
recipes:
  crafting:
  - te-1-12-augment-dynamo-magmatic-coolant
---

An **isentropic reservoir** is an [augment](../augments/) that increases the
amount of [Redstone Flux](../../../redstone-flux/) a [magmatic
dynamo](../magmatic-dynamo/) generates by making it consume
[coolant](../coolants/) as well as fuel.


Obtaining
---------

### Crafting
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.recipes.crafting no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Installation
An isentropic reservoir can be installed in the Augmentation tab in a [magmatic
dynamo](../magmatic-dynamo/)'s GUI. It is a specialization that cannot be
installed together with other specialization augments.

### Effects
An installed isentropic reservoir quadruples the maximum power output of a
[magmatic dynamo](../magmatic-dynamo/), and increases the amount of [Redstone
Flux](../../../redstone-flux/) it generates from each unit of fuel by 15%. However,
the dynamo requires [coolant](../coolants/) as well as fuel to generate
energy.

Coolant, like fuel, is consumed in batches of 100 mB. Every batch of coolant can
be used to generate a certain amount of energy; this amount is equal to the
[thermal capacity](../coolants/#usage) of the used coolant.

A magmatic dynamo with an isentropic reservoir installed generates more energy
from the same amount of fuel when stronger coolants are used. The amount of
energy generated from each batch of fuel is increased by the [coolant
factor](../coolants/#usage) of the used coolant minus 20%
(the coolant factor of [water](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Water)). For
example, using a coolant with a coolant factor of 50% increases the amount of
energy generated by 30%.

If an isentropic reservoir is installed together with other augments that affect
the amount of energy generated from each unit of fuel, their energy
increase/decrease percentages are added together before being applied to the
amount of energy. The energy increase percentage from coolants is also added in
this way.
