docs/essence-of-knowledge/index.md, before:

---
title: Essence of Knowledge
nav: thermal-foundation
image:
  - alt: Essence of knowledge
    file: thermal-foundation/essence-of-knowledge.gif
recipes:
  transposer-empty:
    - bucket-experience
usage-recipes:
  transposer-fill:
    - bucket-experience
    - bottle-o-enchanting
---

**Essence of knowledge** is a fluid form of
[experience](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience).

One [experience point](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience) is worth 20
mB of essence of knowledge.


Obtaining
---------

### Tome of Knowledge
Essence of knowledge can be drained from a [tome of
knowledge](/docs/tome-of-knowledge/) that is holding
[experience](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience). This can be done
manually by using the item on blocks that store fluids, or automatically using
[fluid transposers](/docs/fluid-transposer/) or similar.

### Insightful Condenser
An [insightful condenser](/docs/insightful-condenser/) collects nearby
[experience orbs](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience) and converts them
into essence of knowledge.

### Fluid Transposer
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-empty' recipes=page.recipes.transposer-empty %}


Usage
-----

Essence of knowledge cannot be placed as a block.

### Fluid Transposer ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.usage-recipes.transposer-fill %}

### Tome of Knowledge
A [tome of knowledge](/docs/tome-of-knowledge/) can be filled with essence of
knowledge, converting it into [experience
points](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience). This can be done manually
by using it on blocks that store fluids, or automatically using [fluid
transposers](/docs/fluid-transposer/) or similar.

### Arcane Ensorcellator
An [arcane ensorcellator](/docs/arcane-ensorcellator/) uses essence of knowledge
to produce specific [enchanted
books](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Enchanted_Book).

### Energetic Infuser with Flux Reconstruction
An [energetic infuser](/docs/energetic-infuser/) with [flux
reconstruction](/docs/augment-flux-reconstruction/) installed uses essence of
knowledge to repair damaged items. It uses 5 mB of essence of knowledge per
restored durability point.

Commit message:

Added enstabulation apparatus augment page

docs/essence-of-knowledge/index.md, after:

---
title: Essence of Knowledge
nav: thermal-foundation
image:
  - alt: Essence of knowledge
    file: thermal-foundation/essence-of-knowledge.gif
recipes:
  transposer-empty:
    - bucket-experience
usage-recipes:
  transposer-fill:
    - bucket-experience
    - bottle-o-enchanting
---

**Essence of knowledge** is a fluid form of
[experience](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience).

One [experience point](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience) is worth 20
mB of essence of knowledge.


Obtaining
---------

### Tome of Knowledge
Essence of knowledge can be drained from a [tome of
knowledge](/docs/tome-of-knowledge/) that is holding
[experience](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience). This can be done
manually by using the item on blocks that store fluids, or automatically using
[fluid transposers](/docs/fluid-transposer/) or similar.

### Insightful Condenser
An [insightful condenser](/docs/insightful-condenser/) collects nearby
[experience orbs](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience) and converts them
into essence of knowledge.

### Centrifugal Separator with Enstabulation Apparatus
A [centrifugal separator](/docs/centrifugal-separator/) with an [enstabulation
apparatus](/docs/augment-enstabulation-apparatus/) installed produces essence of
knowledge when processing filled [morbs](/docs/morb/).

### Fluid Transposer
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-empty' recipes=page.recipes.transposer-empty %}


Usage
-----

Essence of knowledge cannot be placed as a block.

### Fluid Transposer ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.usage-recipes.transposer-fill %}

### Tome of Knowledge
A [tome of knowledge](/docs/tome-of-knowledge/) can be filled with essence of
knowledge, converting it into [experience
points](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Experience). This can be done manually
by using it on blocks that store fluids, or automatically using [fluid
transposers](/docs/fluid-transposer/) or similar.

### Arcane Ensorcellator
An [arcane ensorcellator](/docs/arcane-ensorcellator/) uses essence of knowledge
to produce specific [enchanted
books](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Enchanted_Book).

### Energetic Infuser with Flux Reconstruction
An [energetic infuser](/docs/energetic-infuser/) with [flux
reconstruction](/docs/augment-flux-reconstruction/) installed uses essence of
knowledge to repair damaged items. It uses 5 mB of essence of knowledge per
restored durability point.
