docs/pulverized-obsidian/index.md, before:

---
title: Pulverized Obsidian
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/items/materials/dusts/pulverized-obsidian/
recipes:
  pulverizer:
    - dust-obsidian
    - basalz-powder
  centrifuge:
    - dust-petrotheum
usage-recipes:
  crafting:
    - dust-petrotheum
    - obsidian-rod
  smelter:
    - hardened-glass-using-ingot
    - hardened-glass-using-dust
  transposer-fill:
    - basalz-powder
---

![Pulverized obsidian](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/dust-obsidian.png){:style="height: 128px"}


**Pulverized obsidian** is a raw material that is most commonly obtained by
processing [obsidian](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Obsidian) in a
[pulverizer](/docs/pulverizer/).


Obtaining
---------

### Pulverizer
{% include recipe-table.html type='pulverizer' recipes=page.recipes.pulverizer no-result=true %}

### Basalzes
A [basalz](/docs/basalz/) may drop up to two pieces of pulverized obsidian when
killed by a player.

### Centrifugal Separator
{% include recipe-table.html type='centrifuge' recipes=page.recipes.centrifuge no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Crafting ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.usage-recipes.crafting %}

### Induction Smelter ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='smelter' recipes=page.usage-recipes.smelter %}

### Fluid Transposer ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.usage-recipes.transposer-fill %}

Commit message:

Added TF potion recipes page

docs/pulverized-obsidian/index.md, after:

---
title: Pulverized Obsidian
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/items/materials/dusts/pulverized-obsidian/
recipes:
  pulverizer:
    - dust-obsidian
    - basalz-powder
  centrifuge:
    - dust-petrotheum
usage-recipes:
  crafting:
    - dust-petrotheum
    - obsidian-rod
  smelter:
    - hardened-glass-using-ingot
    - hardened-glass-using-dust
  transposer-fill:
    - basalz-powder
---

![Pulverized obsidian](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/dust-obsidian.png){:style="height: 128px"}


**Pulverized obsidian** is a raw material that is most commonly obtained by
processing [obsidian](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Obsidian) in a
[pulverizer](/docs/pulverizer/).


Obtaining
---------

### Pulverizer
{% include recipe-table.html type='pulverizer' recipes=page.recipes.pulverizer no-result=true %}

### Basalzes
A [basalz](/docs/basalz/) may drop up to two pieces of pulverized obsidian when
killed by a player.

### Centrifugal Separator
{% include recipe-table.html type='centrifuge' recipes=page.recipes.centrifuge no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Crafting ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.usage-recipes.crafting %}

### Brewing ingredient
When [brewing](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Brewing), pulverized obsidian can
be added to an [awkward
potion](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Potion#Base_potions) to make a [potion
of resistance](/docs/cofh-core-potions/).

### Induction Smelter ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='smelter' recipes=page.usage-recipes.smelter %}

### Fluid Transposer ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.usage-recipes.transposer-fill %}
