docs/fluxed-phyto-gro/index.md, before:

---
title: Fluxed Phyto-Gro
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/items/materials/other/fluxed-phyto-gro/
recipes:
  charger:
    - phyto-gro-fluxed
usage-recipes:
  crafting:
    - watering-can-resonant
  insolator:
    - beetroot-fluxed
    - cactus-fluxed
    - carrot-fluxed
    - cocoa-beans-fluxed
    - flower-fluxed
    - lily-pad-fluxed
    - melon-fluxed
    - potato-fluxed
    - pumpkin-fluxed
    - sugar-canes-fluxed
    - vines-fluxed
    - wheat-fluxed
  insolator-mycelium:
    - mushroom-fluxed
  insolator-nether:
    - nether-wart-fluxed
  insolator-end:
    - chorus-plant-fluxed
  insolator-tree:
    - wood-fluxed
---

![Fluxed Phyto-Gro](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/phyto-gro-fluxed.gif){:style="height: 128px"}


**Fluxed Phyto-Gro** is a type of fertilizer that can be used by [phytogenic
insolators](/docs/phytogenic-insolator/) and [arboreal
extractors](/docs/arboreal-extractor/). It is the strongest version of
[Phyto-Gro](/docs/phyto-gro/).


Obtaining
---------

### Energetic Infuser
{% include recipe-table.html type='charger' recipes=page.recipes.charger no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Crafting ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.usage-recipes.crafting %}

### Phytogenic Insolator ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Mycelium Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-mycelium' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-mycelium %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Nether Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-nether' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-nether %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Ender Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-end' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-end %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Sapling Infuser ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-tree' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-tree %}

### Arboreal Extractor
When fluxed Phyto-Gro is used in an [arboreal
extractor](/docs/arboreal-extractor/), it produces four times as much fluid.

Commit message:

Thermal Foundation: Phyto-Gro can be used like bone meal

docs/fluxed-phyto-gro/index.md, after:

---
title: Fluxed Phyto-Gro
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/items/materials/other/fluxed-phyto-gro/
recipes:
  charger:
    - phyto-gro-fluxed
usage-recipes:
  crafting:
    - watering-can-resonant
  insolator:
    - beetroot-fluxed
    - cactus-fluxed
    - carrot-fluxed
    - cocoa-beans-fluxed
    - flower-fluxed
    - lily-pad-fluxed
    - melon-fluxed
    - potato-fluxed
    - pumpkin-fluxed
    - sugar-canes-fluxed
    - vines-fluxed
    - wheat-fluxed
  insolator-mycelium:
    - mushroom-fluxed
  insolator-nether:
    - nether-wart-fluxed
  insolator-end:
    - chorus-plant-fluxed
  insolator-tree:
    - wood-fluxed
---

![Fluxed Phyto-Gro](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/phyto-gro-fluxed.gif){:style="height: 128px"}


**Fluxed Phyto-Gro** is a type of fertilizer. It is the strongest of its kind,
surpassing the [regular](/docs/phyto-gro/) and [rich](/docs/rich-phyto-gro/)
versions.


Obtaining
---------

### Energetic Infuser
{% include recipe-table.html type='charger' recipes=page.recipes.charger no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Fertilizer
When used on blocks, fluxed Phyto-Gro grows plants like [bone
meal](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Bone_Meal), but in a 7x7 area.

### Crafting ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.usage-recipes.crafting %}

### Phytogenic Insolator ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Mycelium Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-mycelium' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-mycelium %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Nether Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-nether' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-nether %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Ender Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-end' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-end %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Sapling Infuser ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-tree' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-tree %}

### Arboreal Extractor
When fluxed Phyto-Gro is used in an [arboreal
extractor](/docs/arboreal-extractor/), it produces four times as much fluid.
