docs/phyto-gro/index.md, before:

---
title: Phyto-Gro
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-expansion/materials/phyto-gro/
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/materials/phyto-gro/
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/items/materials/other/phyto-gro/
recipes:
  crafting:
    - phyto-gro-using-sawdust
    - phyto-gro-using-charcoal
usage-recipes:
  crafting:
    - watering-can-reinforced
  transposer-fill:
    - phyto-gro-rich
  insolator:
    - beetroot
    - cactus
    - carrot
    - cocoa-beans
    - flower
    - lily-pad
    - melon
    - potato
    - pumpkin
    - sugar-canes
    - vines
    - wheat
  insolator-mycelium:
    - mushroom
  insolator-nether:
    - nether-wart
  insolator-end:
    - chorus-plant
  insolator-tree:
    - wood
---

![Phyto-Gro](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/phyto-gro.png){:style="height: 128px"}


**Phyto-Gro** is a type of fertilizer that can be used by [phytogenic
insolators](/docs/phytogenic-insolator/) and [arboreal
extractors](/docs/arboreal-extractor/). It is the weakest version of Phyto-Gro,
being surpassed by the [rich](/docs/rich-phyto-gro/) and
[fluxed](/docs/fluxed-phyto-gro/) versions.


Obtaining
---------

### Crafting
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.recipes.crafting no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Phytogenic Insolator ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Mycelium Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-mycelium' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-mycelium %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Nether Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-nether' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-nether %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Ender Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-end' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-end %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Sapling Infuser ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-tree' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-tree %}

### Crafting ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.usage-recipes.crafting %}

### Fluid Transposer ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.usage-recipes.transposer-fill %}

### Arboreal Extractor
When Phyto-Gro is used in an [arboreal extractor](/docs/arboreal-extractor/), it
produces twice as much fluid.

Commit message:

Thermal Foundation: Phyto-Gro can be used like bone meal

docs/phyto-gro/index.md, after:

---
title: Phyto-Gro
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-expansion/materials/phyto-gro/
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/materials/phyto-gro/
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/items/materials/other/phyto-gro/
recipes:
  crafting:
    - phyto-gro-using-sawdust
    - phyto-gro-using-charcoal
usage-recipes:
  crafting:
    - watering-can-reinforced
  transposer-fill:
    - phyto-gro-rich
  insolator:
    - beetroot
    - cactus
    - carrot
    - cocoa-beans
    - flower
    - lily-pad
    - melon
    - potato
    - pumpkin
    - sugar-canes
    - vines
    - wheat
  insolator-mycelium:
    - mushroom
  insolator-nether:
    - nether-wart
  insolator-end:
    - chorus-plant
  insolator-tree:
    - wood
---

![Phyto-Gro](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/phyto-gro.png){:style="height: 128px"}


**Phyto-Gro** is a type of fertilizer. It is the weakest of its kind, being
surpassed by the [rich](/docs/rich-phyto-gro/) and
[fluxed](/docs/fluxed-phyto-gro/) versions.


Obtaining
---------

### Crafting
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.recipes.crafting no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Fertilizer
When used on blocks, Phyto-Gro grows plants like [bone
meal](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Bone_Meal), but in a 3x3 area.

### Phytogenic Insolator ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Mycelium Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-mycelium' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-mycelium %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Nether Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-nether' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-nether %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Ender Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-end' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-end %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Sapling Infuser ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-tree' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-tree %}

### Crafting ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.usage-recipes.crafting %}

### Fluid Transposer ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.usage-recipes.transposer-fill %}

### Arboreal Extractor
When Phyto-Gro is used in an [arboreal extractor](/docs/arboreal-extractor/), it
produces twice as much fluid.
