docs/rich-phyto-gro/index.md, before:

---
title: Rich Phyto-Gro
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/items/materials/other/rich-phyto-gro/
recipes:
  crafting:
    - phyto-gro-rich-using-sawdust
    - phyto-gro-rich-using-charcoal
  transposer-fill:
    - phyto-gro-rich
usage-recipes:
  crafting:
    - podzol-using-phyto-gro
    - mycelium-using-phyto-gro
    - watering-can-signalum
  charger:
    - phyto-gro-fluxed
  insolator:
    - beetroot-rich
    - cactus-rich
    - carrot-rich
    - cocoa-beans-rich
    - flower-rich
    - lily-pad-rich
    - melon-rich
    - potato-rich
    - pumpkin-rich
    - sugar-canes-rich
    - vines-rich
    - wheat-rich
  insolator-mycelium:
    - mushroom-rich
  insolator-nether:
    - nether-wart-rich
  insolator-end:
    - chorus-plant-rich
  insolator-tree:
    - wood-rich
---

![Rich Phyto-Gro](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/phyto-gro-rich.png){:style="height: 128px"}


**Rich Phyto-Gro** is a type of fertilizer that can be used by [phytogenic
insolators](/docs/phytogenic-insolator/) and [arboreal
extractors](/docs/arboreal-extractor/). It can also be used to craft
[podzol](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Podzol) and
[mycelium](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Mycelium). It is stronger than
[regular Phyto-Gro](/docs/phyto-gro/), but weaker than [fluxed
Phyto-Gro](/docs/fluxed-phyto-gro/).


Obtaining
---------

### Crafting
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.recipes.crafting no-result=true %}

### Fluid Transposer
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.recipes.transposer-fill no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Crafting ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.usage-recipes.crafting %}

### Phytogenic Insolator ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Mycelium Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-mycelium' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-mycelium %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Nether Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-nether' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-nether %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Ender Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-end' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-end %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Sapling Infuser ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-tree' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-tree %}

### Energetic Infuser ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='charger' recipes=page.usage-recipes.charger %}

### Arboreal Extractor
When rich Phyto-Gro is used in an [arboreal
extractor](/docs/arboreal-extractor/), it produces three times as much fluid.

Commit message:

Thermal Foundation: Phyto-Gro can be used like bone meal

docs/rich-phyto-gro/index.md, after:

---
title: Rich Phyto-Gro
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/items/materials/other/rich-phyto-gro/
recipes:
  crafting:
    - phyto-gro-rich-using-sawdust
    - phyto-gro-rich-using-charcoal
  transposer-fill:
    - phyto-gro-rich
usage-recipes:
  crafting:
    - podzol-using-phyto-gro
    - mycelium-using-phyto-gro
    - watering-can-signalum
  charger:
    - phyto-gro-fluxed
  insolator:
    - beetroot-rich
    - cactus-rich
    - carrot-rich
    - cocoa-beans-rich
    - flower-rich
    - lily-pad-rich
    - melon-rich
    - potato-rich
    - pumpkin-rich
    - sugar-canes-rich
    - vines-rich
    - wheat-rich
  insolator-mycelium:
    - mushroom-rich
  insolator-nether:
    - nether-wart-rich
  insolator-end:
    - chorus-plant-rich
  insolator-tree:
    - wood-rich
---

![Rich Phyto-Gro](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/phyto-gro-rich.png){:style="height: 128px"}


**Rich Phyto-Gro** is a type of fertilizer. It is stronger than the
[regular](/docs/phyto-gro/) version, but weaker than the
[fluxed](/docs/fluxed-phyto-gro/) version.


Obtaining
---------

### Crafting
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.recipes.crafting no-result=true %}

### Fluid Transposer
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.recipes.transposer-fill no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Fertilizer
When used on blocks, rich Phyto-Gro grows plants like [bone
meal](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Bone_Meal), but in a 5x5 area.

### Crafting ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.usage-recipes.crafting %}

### Phytogenic Insolator ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Mycelium Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-mycelium' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-mycelium %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Nether Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-nether' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-nether %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Ender Substrate ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-end' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-end %}

### Phytogenic Insolator with Sapling Infuser ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='insolator-tree' recipes=page.usage-recipes.insolator-tree %}

### Energetic Infuser ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='charger' recipes=page.usage-recipes.charger %}

### Arboreal Extractor
When rich Phyto-Gro is used in an [arboreal
extractor](/docs/arboreal-extractor/), it produces three times as much fluid.
