docs/augment-trivection-chamber/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Augment: Trivection Chamber'
nav: thermal-expansion
image:
  - alt: Trivection chamber augment
    file: thermal-expansion/augment-machine-furnace-food.png
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-expansion/augments/redstone-furnace-specialization/
recipes:
  crafting:
    - augment-machine-furnace-food
recipe-list:
  - food
---

A **trivection chamber** is an [augment](/docs/augments/) that doubles the
amount of cooked [food](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Food) a [redstone
furnace](/docs/redstone-furnace/) produces when processing raw food.


Obtaining
---------

### Crafting
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.recipes.crafting no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Installation
A trivection chamber can be installed in the Augmentation tab in a [redstone
furnace](/docs/redstone-furnace/)'s GUI. It is a specialization that cannot be
installed together with other specialization augments.

### Effects
An installed trivection chamber replaces a [redstone
furnace](/docs/redstone-furnace/)'s recipe set with [its own](#recipes). This
recipe set consists only of cooking
[food](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Food), though with double the amount of
output.

A trivection chamber also increases the amount of energy required per operation
by 50%. For convenience, the energy amounts shown below are the resulting
amounts after this increase is applied. The true energy amounts are the listed
amounts divided by 1.5. When other augments are installed that increase the
amount of energy required per operation, all the energy increase percentages are
added together before being applied to the true amount of energy, including the
50% from this augment.


Recipes
-------

{% include recipe-table.html type='redstone-furnace-food' recipes=page.recipe-list %}

Commit message:

Removed recipe lists of augments that do not use a separate recipe set

docs/augment-trivection-chamber/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Augment: Trivection Chamber'
nav: thermal-expansion
image:
  - alt: Trivection chamber augment
    file: thermal-expansion/augment-machine-furnace-food.png
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-expansion/augments/redstone-furnace-specialization/
recipes:
  crafting:
    - augment-machine-furnace-food
---

A **trivection chamber** is an [augment](/docs/augments/) that doubles the
amount of cooked [food](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Food) a [redstone
furnace](/docs/redstone-furnace/) produces when processing raw food.


Obtaining
---------

### Crafting
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.recipes.crafting no-result=true %}


Usage
-----

### Installation
A trivection chamber can be installed in the Augmentation tab in a [redstone
furnace](/docs/redstone-furnace/)'s GUI. It is a specialization that cannot be
installed together with other specialization augments.

### Effects
A [redstone furnace](/docs/redstone-furnace/) with a trivection chamber
installed processes each unit of raw
[food](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Food) into two units of cooked food. For
example, one raw [potato](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Potato) is processed
into two [baked potatoes](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Baked_Potato).
However, the machine cannot process anything other than food, and the amount of
energy required per operation is increased by 50%.

If a trivection chamber is installed together with other augments that increase
the amount of energy required per operation, their energy increase percentages
are added together before being applied to the amount of energy.
