docs/satchel/index.md, before:

---
title: Satchel
nav: thermal-expansion
image:
  - alt: Satchel (Basic)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-basic.png
  - alt: Satchel (Hardened)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-hardened.png
  - alt: Satchel (Reinforced)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-reinforced.png
  - alt: Satchel (Signalum)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-signalum.png
  - alt: Satchel (Resonant)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-resonant.png
  - alt: Satchel (Void)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-void.gif
  - alt: Satchel (Creative)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-creative.png
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-expansion/storage/satchels/
  - /docs/thermal-expansion/storage/satchel/
recipes:
  crafting:
    - satchel-basic-using-leather
    - satchel-basic-using-rockwool
    - satchel-hardened
    - satchel-reinforced
    - satchel-signalum
    - satchel-resonant
    - satchel-void-using-leather
    - satchel-void-using-rockwool
---

A **satchel** is an item that stores other items. It is able to automatically
store picked up items.


Obtaining
---------

### Crafting
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.recipes.crafting %}


Usage
-----

### Item storage
A satchel can be opened by using it. When opened, items can be put in or taken
out, like with [chests](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Chest).

Satchels cannot store certain items that can themselves store items, like other
satchels or [strongboxes](/docs/strongbox/).

### Item transfer
A satchel's contents can be transferred into a block that stores items by using
the satchel on the block while sneaking.

### Auto-collect
A satchel is able to automatically store items picked up by its user. This is
called auto-collect. Auto-collect can be enabled and disabled by pressing "Cycle
Item Mode" (V by default) while holding the satchel.

A satchel can be configured to only auto-collect items that match a given list
of items. This can be done by using the satchel while sneaking. It has various
options that determine how this list is used to match items.

Blacklist/Whitelist
: Treat the list of items as a blacklist (store all items except these) or as a
whitelist (only store these items). The list is used as a blacklist by default.

Ore Dictionary
: Match items that are considered equivalent, like the various versions of
copper and tin ingots added by different mods. This is ignored by default.

Metadata
: Match items by their exact metadata / damage value. This is ignored by
default.

NBT
: Match items by their exact NBT data. This is ignored by default.

### Security
A satchel can have a [signalum security lock](/docs/signalum-security-lock/)
installed to restrict who can access it.

### Enchantments
A satchel can be enchanted with [Holding](/docs/holding/) to increase its
capacity.

| Holding level | Capacity increase (slots) |
|---
| I | + 9 |
| II | + 18 |
| III | + 27 |
| IV | + 36 |
{:.uk-table .uk-table-striped .uk-table-condensed .uk-text-small .cofh-table-compress}


Types
-----

There are seven different satchel types, most of which are
[tiers](/docs/tiers/).

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}
<div class="uk-overflow-container">
| Type | Capacity (slots) | Auto-collect filter slots | Note |
|---
| Basic | 9 | 3 |
| Hardened | 18 | 6 |
| Reinforced | 27 | 9 |
| Signalum | 36 | 12 |
| Resonant | 45 | 15 |
| Void | 1 | 15 | Destroys any items it receives. |
| Creative | 1 | N/A | Provides an unlimited amount of the item it stores. |
{:.uk-table .uk-table-striped .uk-table-condensed .uk-text-small .cofh-table-semi-compress}
</div>
{::options parse_block_html="false" /}

Commit message:

Updated capacitor, reservoir and satchel pages

docs/satchel/index.md, after:

---
title: Satchel
nav: thermal-expansion
image:
  - alt: Satchel (Basic)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-basic.png
  - alt: Satchel (Hardened)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-hardened.png
  - alt: Satchel (Reinforced)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-reinforced.png
  - alt: Satchel (Signalum)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-signalum.png
  - alt: Satchel (Resonant)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-resonant.png
  - alt: Satchel (Void)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-void.gif
  - alt: Satchel (Creative)
    file: thermal-expansion/satchel-creative.png
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-expansion/storage/satchels/
  - /docs/thermal-expansion/storage/satchel/
recipes:
  crafting:
    - satchel-basic-using-leather
    - satchel-basic-using-rockwool
    - satchel-hardened
    - satchel-reinforced
    - satchel-signalum
    - satchel-resonant
    - satchel-void-using-leather
    - satchel-void-using-rockwool
---

A **satchel** is an item that stores other items. It is able to automatically
store picked up items.


Obtaining
---------

### Crafting
{% include recipe-table.html type='crafting' recipes=page.recipes.crafting %}

### Dyeing
The body and flap of a satchel can be dyed by combining the satchel with
[dyes](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Dye) in a crafting grid. The body and/or
flap are dyed depending on the dyes' positions around the satchel in the
crafting grid.

Dyes can be removed from a satchel by combining it with a [water
bucket](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Water_Bucket) in a crafting grid (or any
item that holds at least a [bucket](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Bucket)
worth of [water](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Water)).


Usage
-----

### Item storage
A satchel can be opened by using it. When opened, items can be put in or taken
out, like with [chests](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Chest).

Satchels cannot store certain items that can themselves store items, like other
satchels or [strongboxes](/docs/strongbox/).

### Item transfer
A satchel's contents can be transferred into a block that stores items by using
the satchel on the block while sneaking.

### Auto-collect
A satchel is able to automatically store items picked up by its user. This is
called auto-collect. Auto-collect can be enabled and disabled by pressing "Cycle
Item Mode" (V by default) while holding the satchel.

A satchel can be configured to only auto-collect items that match a given list
of items. This can be done by using the satchel while sneaking. It has various
options that determine how this list is used to match items.

Blacklist/Whitelist
: Treat the list of items as a blacklist (store all items except these) or as a
whitelist (only store these items). The list is used as a blacklist by default.

Ore Dictionary
: Match items that are considered equivalent, like the various versions of
copper and tin ingots added by different mods. This is ignored by default.

Metadata
: Match items by their exact metadata / damage value. This is ignored by
default.

NBT
: Match items by their exact NBT data. This is ignored by default.

### Security
A satchel can have a [signalum security lock](/docs/signalum-security-lock/)
installed to restrict who can access it.

### Enchantments
A satchel can be enchanted with [Holding](/docs/holding/) to increase its
capacity.

| Holding level | Capacity increase (slots) |
|---
| I | + 9 |
| II | + 18 |
| III | + 27 |
| IV | + 36 |
{:.uk-table .uk-table-striped .uk-table-condensed .uk-text-small .cofh-table-compress}


Types
-----

There are seven different satchel types, most of which are
[tiers](/docs/tiers/).

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}
<div class="uk-overflow-container">
| Type | Capacity (slots) | Auto-collect filter slots | Note |
|---
| Basic | 9 | 3 |
| Hardened | 18 | 6 |
| Reinforced | 27 | 9 |
| Signalum | 36 | 12 |
| Resonant | 45 | 15 |
| Void | 1 | 15 | Destroys any items it receives. |
| Creative | 1 | N/A | Provides an unlimited amount of the item it stores. |
{:.uk-table .uk-table-striped .uk-table-condensed .uk-text-small .cofh-table-semi-compress}
</div>
{::options parse_block_html="false" /}
