docs/sap/index.md, before:

---
title: Sap
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/tree/sap/
recipes:
  sawmill-tapper:
    - wood-processing-oak
    - wood-processing-dark-oak
  transposer-empty:
    - bucket-sap
usage-recipes:
  transposer-fill:
    - bucket-sap
    - phyto-gro-rich
---

![Sap](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/sap.gif){:style="height: 128px"}


**Sap** is a fluid obtained from oak and dark oak
[trees](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Tree). It can be used to turn [regular
Phyto-Gro](/docs/phyto-gro/) into [rich Phyto-Gro](/docs/rich-phyto-gro/).


Obtaining
---------

### Arboreal Extractor
An [arboreal extractor](/docs/arboreal-extractor/) will produce sap when placed
next to an oak or dark oak [tree](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Tree).

### Sawmill with Resin Funnel
{% include recipe-table.html type='sawmill-tapper' recipes=page.recipes.sawmill-tapper %}

### Fluid Transposer
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-empty' recipes=page.recipes.transposer-empty %}


Usage
-----

Sap cannot be placed as a block.

### Fluid Transposer ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.usage-recipes.transposer-fill %}

Commit message:

Removed recipe lists of augments that do not use a separate recipe set

docs/sap/index.md, after:

---
title: Sap
nav: thermal-foundation
redirect_from:
  - /docs/thermal-foundation/fluids/tree/sap/
recipes:
  transposer-empty:
    - bucket-sap
usage-recipes:
  transposer-fill:
    - bucket-sap
    - phyto-gro-rich
---

![Sap](/assets/images/thermal-foundation/sap.gif){:style="height: 128px"}


**Sap** is a fluid obtained from oak and dark oak
[trees](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Tree). It can be used to turn [regular
Phyto-Gro](/docs/phyto-gro/) into [rich Phyto-Gro](/docs/rich-phyto-gro/).


Obtaining
---------

### Arboreal Extractor
An [arboreal extractor](/docs/arboreal-extractor/) will produce sap when placed
next to an oak or dark oak [tree](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Tree).

### Sawmill with Resin Funnel
A [sawmill](/docs/sawmill/) with a [resin funnel](/docs/augment-resin-funnel/)
installed produces sap as a byproduct when processing oak or dark oak
[wood](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Wood).

### Fluid Transposer
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-empty' recipes=page.recipes.transposer-empty %}


Usage
-----

Sap cannot be placed as a block.

### Fluid Transposer ingredient
{% include recipe-table.html type='transposer-fill' recipes=page.usage-recipes.transposer-fill %}
